.\" tinyserve(1) — minimal HTTP server
.TH TINYSERVE 1 "2026-04-18" "tinyserve" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tinyserve \- a small static-file, stub and reverse-proxy HTTP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tinyserve
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tinyserve
is a small, single-process HTTP/1.1 server written in C on top of
.BR libuv (3).
It can act as a static file server, a configurable stub responder
(useful for testing), or a reverse proxy.
.PP
The server supports HTTP keep-alive, byte-range requests
(including multipart/byteranges), conditional GET via
.I If-None-Match
and
.IR If-Modified-Since ,
asynchronous directory listings, optional Basic or header authentication,
configurable idle and read timeouts, and a per-process maximum
connection cap.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-m " mode"
Server mode:
.B f
for file serving (default),
.B s
for stub/route mode,
.B p
for proxy mode.
.TP
.BI \-a " addr"
Bind address (default
.IR 127.0.0.1 ).
.TP
.BI \-p " port"
Listen port (default
.IR 8000 ).
Must be 1\(en65535.
.TP
.BI \-d " dir"
Root directory for file serving (default current directory).
The path is canonicalized at startup; requests that resolve outside it
are rejected with
.BR 403 .
.TP
.BI \-c " file"
Route configuration file (stub mode).
.TP
.BI \-u " user"
Basic-auth username. Must be paired with
.BR \-w .
.TP
.BI \-w " pass"
Basic-auth password.
.TP
.BI \-k " header"
Header-auth header name. Must be paired with
.BR \-v .
.TP
.BI \-v " value"
Header-auth expected value.
.TP
.BI \-t " host"
Proxy target host (proxy mode).
.TP
.BI \-q " port"
Proxy target port (proxy mode).
.TP
.BI \-l " level"
Log level:
.BR error ", " warn ", or " info " (default)" .
.TP
.BI \-j " num"
Number of worker threads.
.B 0
selects the platform default (one per CPU on Linux, 1 elsewhere).
.TP
.BI \-n " num"
Maximum concurrent connections per process.
Connections beyond the cap receive
.BR "503 Service Unavailable" .
.TP
.B \-h
Print a short help message and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B tinyserve
exits 0 on a clean shutdown (e.g. on
.BR SIGTERM )
and non-zero on a configuration error or fatal runtime failure.
.SH SIGNALS
.B SIGINT
and
.B SIGTERM
trigger an orderly shutdown: the listening socket is closed, in-flight
responses are allowed to drain, then the process exits.
.SH SECURITY
File serving rejects any request whose canonical path escapes the
configured root directory. URL-encoded NUL bytes (\(lq%00\(rq) are
rejected. Multipart/byteranges responses use a 128-bit cryptographic
random boundary.
Total request header size is capped (see
.B 431 Request Header Fields Too Large
in the response).
.SH FILES
Configuration files referenced by
.B \-c
are read once at startup. The runtime has no other configuration
files of its own.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR curl (1),
.BR nginx (8),
.BR systemd.service (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Derrity <derrity0731@proton.me>
